DOCUMENT TITLE: Amplifon Stops Millions of Threats & Policy Violations
SUBTITLE: Across Global Operations with the Zscaler Zero Trust Exchange
CUSTOMER: Amplifon

=== COMPANY OVERVIEW ===
Amplifon is a world leader in hearing care solutions, empowering patients to rediscover all the emotions of sound. With more than 70 years of industry expertise fueling a highly personalized and innovative approach, Amplifon is recognized as the global standard in hearing care retail.
Industry: Healthcare and Pharmaceutical
Headquarters: Milan, Italy
Company Size: 20,000 employees worldwide
Source URL: https://www.zscaler.com/customers/amplifon

=== EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ===
Challenges:
  * Embrace a zero trust platform to create consistent user experiences and protect patient data across growing global operations
Transformation Journey:
  * An on-premises, legacy proxy solution no longer provided the capacity or scalability Amplifon needed to support thousands of geographically dispersed hearing care centers—or its plans for continued expansion.
Key Results:
  * Displaces legacy security appliances with one comprehensive platform
  * Protects more than 15,000 users with secure, direct access to internet and SaaS apps
  * Prevents policy violations and security threats (13M+ violations and 489K+ threats in three months)
  * Enables M&A integration that is 90% faster than legacy solutions used previously
  * Enforces consistent global security protocols and enables country-specific access policies
  * Replaces legacy VPNs and protects sensitive patient data with zero trust network access
  * Provides end-to-end visibility to accelerate issue resolution and improve digital experience

=== KEY QUOTES ===
"Zscaler powers a unified, global security infrastructure. With Zscaler, no matter where in the world we operate, we are all speaking the same language when it comes to zero trust security."
  — David Mallen, Global IT Network Operations Manager, Amplifon

=== CASE STUDY DETAILS ===

--- Embracing digital innovation for decades ---
Founded in 1950, Amplifon has evolved from a leading Italian hearing care provider into a global force for innovative hearing care. Digital innovation has long been part of the company's core philosophy—it was the first in Italy to introduce a complete portfolio of digital products in the 1990s.
Managing risk while scaling innovation requires security transformation, so it's no surprise that Amplifon embraced holistic zero trust security.
“Zero trust architecture offers a more agile approach to mitigate risk across an expansive operation,” said David Mallen, Global IT Network Operations Manager at Amplifon. “The zero trust approach is ideally suited to support a dynamic and changing global footprint.”
"Zero trust architecture offers a more agile approach to mitigate risk across an expansive operation. The zero trust approach is ideally suited to support a dynamic and changing global footprint."
  — David Mallen, Global IT Network Operations Manager, Amplifon

--- Zscaler supports a global operation with zero trust security ---
Operating in around 10,000 hearing care retail locations across 26 countries, Amplifon manages an expansive and diverse environment. Creating a consistent user experience for its workforce, ensuring a consistent patient experience across its retail locations, and safeguarding sensitive patient data are key priorities for the company.
Amplifon wanted a cloud native, comprehensive zero trust security solution with global reach. The company also wanted to displace outdated, legacy security appliances in favor of a more streamlined and efficient security stack.
The Zscaler Zero Trust Exchange allows Amplifon to establish and enforce consistent global security parameters while also providing the flexibility to easily customize for country-specific policies as needed.
“With the Zero Trust Exchange, we can easily implement best practice zero trust security policies at the global level, country level, or individual user level,” said Mallen. “Zscaler has lessened our reliance on legacy appliances, allowing us to maintain a more comprehensive zero trust architecture with one platform.”
"With the Zero Trust Exchange, we can easily implement best practice zero trust security policies at the global level, country level, or individual user level. Zscaler has lessened our reliance on legacy appliances, allowing us to maintain a more comprehensive zero trust architecture with one platform."
  — Mallen, Amplifon
"With Zscaler we are managing safer access to the internet and public applications on a global scale."
  — David Mallen, Global IT Network Operations Manager, Amplifon

--- Zscaler enables safer internet connections worldwide ---
An on-premises, legacy proxy solution no longer provided the capacity or scalability Amplifon needed to support thousands of geographically dispersed hearing care centers—or its plans for continued expansion.
Zscaler Internet Access (ZIA) enables secure, reliable, and fast connections to the internet and SaaS applications across Amplifon locations. Powered by the world’s largest inline security cloud, the Zero Trust Exchange displaces traditional proxy appliances as a more secure way to broker direct-to-internet access for users worldwide.
With cloud firewall, URL filtering, and TLS/SSL inspection built into the comprehensive Zscaler platform, multiple point products are no longer necessary. In addition, by delivering security from the cloud, as close to the user as possible, Zscaler eliminates the need to backhaul internet traffic to a data center.
For Amplifon, this means that even with a streamlined outbound security stack, they benefit from more rigorous security across their global operations, and every user benefits from a consistent and seamless connectivity experience.
“With Zscaler, we are managing safer access to the internet and public applications on a global scale. Every user can be securely connected from anywhere,” said Mallen.
"With Zscaler, we are managing safer access to the internet and public applications on a global scale. Every user can be securely connected from anywhere."
  — Mallen, Amplifon

--- Zscaler delivers zero trust access to keep patient data secure ---
Amplifon supports millions of patients worldwide with a team of more than 10,000 hearing care professionals, requiring secure management of highly sensitive patient data and other essential private resources.
Before Zscaler, Amplifon used client-to-site virtual private network (VPN) appliances for managing inbound security. Traditional VPN appliances inherently create a wider attack surface.
Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) provides least-privileged access to Amplifon private applications on a need-to-know basis only. Private resources are accessed directly through the Zero Trust Exchange, never exposed to the internet.
Zscaler verifies user identity, device security posture, and context before an inbound connection is made while inline traffic inspection enforces access control policies and actively prevents web attacks. This dramatically minimizes the attack surface and eliminates lateral movement if a bad actor gains access to the network.
“Private Amplifon applications—and importantly, patient data—are always protected behind the Zero Trust Exchange,” shared Mallen. “Zscaler ensures that our users have direct access to the data they need while allowing us to define and enforce access control policies on a very granular level across the globe.”
"Private Amplifon applications—and importantly, patient data—are always protected behind the Zero Trust Exchange. Zscaler ensures that our users have direct access to the data they need while allowing us to define and enforce access control policies on a very granular level across the globe."
  — Mallen, Amplifon
"Zscaler [allows] us to define and enforce those access control policies on a very granular level across the globe."
  — David Mallen, Global IT Network Operations Manager, Amplifon

--- Intuitive Zscaler platform ensures consistent user experience ---
As the team member solely responsible for managing the Zero Trust Exchange at Amplifon, Mallen appreciates the innovative Zscaler features that allow him to simplify administration of such a comprehensive zero trust architecture.
Zscaler Digital Experience (ZDX) enables Mallen to optimize the user experience globally. Zscaler provides him with end-to-end visibility from user to application for easier monitoring across devices and networks and insights that help accelerate mean time to resolution of any issues detected.
Built-in reporting dashboards give Mallen greater visibility into platform use across Amplifon locations. These Zscaler reports synthesize a wide range of data-driven signals to provide real-time risk assessment. Using these insights, Amplifon can implement better informed access control and use policies—even tailoring specific policies to particular countries as needed.
“The Zero Trust Exchange is easy to manage, monitor, and maintain,” said Mallen. “Leveraging the global cloud infrastructure and intuitive features of the Zscaler platform lets me manage connectivity from the US to New Zealand and seamlessly adjust parameters across all locations or per individual locations. Ultimately, this ensures a consistent user experience from one side of the world to the other.”
"The Zero Trust Exchange is easy to manage, monitor, and maintain. Leveraging the global cloud infrastructure and intuitive features of the Zscaler platform lets me manage connectivity from the US to New Zealand and seamlessly adjust parameters across all locations or per individual locations. Ultimately, this ensures a consistent user experience from one side of the world to the other."
  — Mallen, Amplifon

--- Leveraging Zscaler platform for safer, faster M&A integration ---
Amplifon has been expanding global operations through strategic acquisitions since the 1990s. Today, the company operates across EMEA, the Americas, and APAC, and corporate growth is not slowing.
Zscaler simplifies integrating acquired companies into the Amplifon security infrastructure for Mallen. The Zero Trust Exchange can automatically handle expanding volumes of traffic and users at scale without intensive manual intervention or increased risk to the corporate network.
Before Zscaler, Mallen would create a standard site-to-site VPN to connect a newly acquired call center network to the Amplifon corporate network. This process could take up to 30 days and risk a wider attack surface. On the Zero Trust Exchange, Mallen simply needs to grant new users zero trust connectivity to relevant private applications, along with installing Zscaler Client Connector™ on their devices. This new process can be completed in roughly three days—90% faster than before.
“Amplifon is growing at a rapid pace, but we are able to leverage the Zscaler solution to accelerate ongoing M&A activity,” said Mallen. “The scalability of the Zero Trust Exchange gives us flexibility to expand as a business, efficiently and with agility, while maintaining our secure edge.”
"Amplifon is growing at a rapid pace, but we are able to leverage the Zscaler solution to accelerate ongoing M&A activity. The scalability of the Zero Trust Exchange gives us flexibility to expand as a business, efficiently and with agility, while maintaining our secure edge."
  — Mallen, Amplifon
"The scalability of the Zero Trust Exchange gives us flexibility to expand as a business ... while maintaining our secure edge."
  — David Mallen, Global IT Network Operations Manager, Amplifon

--- Comprehensive zero trust platform unites a global workforce ---
With the Zero Trust Exchange, Amplifon has achieved a more robust security edge with a lighter tech stack. In a single three-month period, Zscaler processed 7.4 billion transactions and nearly 472 TB of traffic for Amplifon, preventing 13.8 million policy violations and blocking more than 489,000 security threats.
Mallen is excited to further optimize the way Amplifon uses the Zscaler platform with additional Zscaler capabilities. Amplifon is adopting Zscaler Privileged Remote Access as a way to collaborate with external suppliers. Meanwhile, Mallen is exploring Zscaler Workload Communications to better secure Amplifon workloads in the cloud. The Zero Trust Exchange is pre-integrated to work seamlessly with other cloud service providers, so Mallen is also looking to add additional cloud-based security solutions to complement the company's evolving zero trust approach.
With Zscaler, Amplifon can continue to expand its global presence with greater efficiency and less risk while Mallen works to ensure a secure, consistent user experience for staff and patients everywhere. “Zscaler powers a unified, global security infrastructure and simplifies management of rural policies,” concluded Mallen. “With Zscaler, no matter where in the world we operate, we are all speaking the same language when it comes to zero trust security.”
"Zscaler powers a unified, global security infrastructure and simplifies management of rural policies. With Zscaler, no matter where in the world we operate, we are all speaking the same language when it comes to zero trust security."
  — Mallen, Amplifon

=== SOLUTIONS & PRODUCTS USED ===
- Zero Trust App Access
- Optimize Digital Experiences
- Secure Remote Access
- Data Security
- Accelerate M&A and Divestitures
