DOCUMENT TITLE: John Holland Reduces Networking Costs by 50% using the Zscaler Zero Trust Exchange
SUBTITLE: Zscaler eases the transition to SD-WAN and enables displacement of hundreds of firewalls, improving operational efficiency and security posture
CUSTOMER: John Holland

=== COMPANY OVERVIEW ===
Integrated infrastructure, building, rail, and multi-modal transport company
Industry: Construction
Headquarters: Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
Company Size: 5000+ employees, across 120+ locations
Source URL: https://www.zscaler.com/customers/john-holland

=== KEY METRICS & HIGHLIGHTS ===
- 1 week: to roll out zero trust
- 6K: staff and contractors protected
- 122K: threats blocked in three months

=== EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ===
Challenges:
  * A traditional, perimeter security architecture could not scale to support increasingly cloud-first business operations
  * An outdated MPLS network relied on significant traffic backhauling, slowing the speed of IT services and increasing costs
  * Legacy firewall appliances lacked the agility to inspect encrypted traffic inline, increasing vulnerability to threats
Transformation Journey:
  * A cloud-first strategy allowed John Holland to be more agile and deliver better outcomes for its clients.
Key Results:
  * Migrates 100% of users to zero trust in one week and enables faster network access provisioning at 120+ project sites
  * Retires hundreds of legacy firewall appliances with zero trust connectivity, realizing a 50% reduction in networking costs
  * Secures connectivity for users, processing 400 TB of traffic and preventing 98 million policy violations quarterly

=== KEY QUOTES ===
"At John Holland, we’re focused on protecting our data and our customers’ data. Our environment is significantly more secure because of Zscaler. We now have a fully matured, best-in-class cyber resiliency program."
  — Kier Morrison, General Manager, John Holland

=== CASE STUDY DETAILS ===

--- Building a sustainable foundation for flexible work ---
John Holland transformed the Sydney Football Stadium into a fan favorite, built Australia’s first driverless metro, and is turning an old gold mine into clean hydroelectric power at Kidston Pumped Hydro. As John Holland designs, builds, and manages large-scale public infrastructure projects for its clients, it needs an agile and scalable IT environment.
“We need to deliver IT services to stand up project sites and decommission them at the pace of business,” said Kier Morrison, General Manager, IT Technology Operations at John Holland. “We wanted a simpler way to provide our workforce with fast, secure access to their apps and the internet, no matter where they connect from.”
Hybrid work is the norm at John Holland, with five head offices and 140 project locations across Australia and New Zealand. Employees, subcontractors, and joint-venture business partners need access to critical SaaS apps, cloud services, and the internet, whether at project sites, corporate offices, their homes, or anywhere in between.
"We need to deliver IT services to stand up project sites and decommission them at the pace of business. We wanted a simpler way to provide our workforce with fast, secure access to their apps and the internet, no matter where they connect from."
  — Kier Morrison, General Manager, John Holland
"Moving with the Zscaler model meant we were able to drop hundreds of firewalls."
  — Kier Morrison, General Manager, John Holland

--- Cloud-first demands security transformation ---
A cloud-first strategy allowed John Holland to be more agile and deliver better outcomes for its clients. But as the company adopted more SaaS apps, it wanted to provide its users with fast, easy access to authorized apps while speeding IT service provisioning to new project sites, and reducing IT costs.
“We were cloud-first, but we were still routing all of our traffic, including SaaS-bound traffic, back to our data centers and then out to the cloud,” said Morrison. “As we moved to more SaaS apps to support our work, we needed a cloud native security model.”
The company’s traditional MPLS network and perimeter security architecture constricted the speed of IT service delivery and impacted the user experience. All SaaS and internet traffic had to be routed back to the data center for threat detection and security policy enforcement before proceeding to the cloud provider, slowing application response time, consuming network resources, and adding complexity to the IT environment. Users working offsite needed a remote access VPN, which also slowed application response time and was increasingly vulnerable to compromise.
John Holland wanted to provide users with zero trust network access to critical business apps and the internet. With a security service edge (SSE) solution as part of its network and security transformation plans, the IT team hoped to rapidly deploy secure network services to remote project sites, reduce manual security work, and take a more efficient, programmatic approach to security.
“Our rigorous evaluation of SSE solutions focused on three key areas: agility, security, and simplification,” said Morrison.
"We were cloud-first, but we were still routing all of our traffic, including SaaS-bound traffic, back to our data centers and then out to the cloud. As we moved to more SaaS apps to support our work, we needed a cloud native security model."
  — Morrison, John Holland
"Our rigorous evaluation of SSE solutions focused on three key areas: agility, security, and simplification."
  — Morrison, John Holland
"The way that Zscaler interfaces into the Microsoft network makes our life exceedingly simple…"
  — Kier Morrison, General Manager, John Holland

--- Securing user access to SaaS apps from anywhere ---
John Holland chose the Zscaler Zero Trust Exchange, a cloud native cybersecurity platform that connects and secures users, workloads, IoT/OT, and B2B partners over any network and from any location.
“At John Holland, we’re focused on protecting our data and our customers’ data,” said Morrison. “Our environment is significantly more secure because of Zscaler. We have a fully matured, best-in-class cyber resiliency program.”
Zscaler Internet Access (ZIA) provides some 6,000 employees with safe, fast internet and SaaS access from wherever they work. ZIA provides inspection of TLS/SSL-encrypted traffic at scale, cloud sandboxing, cloud firewall, cloud data loss prevention (DLP), and cloud access security broker (CASB) functionality. Users access only their authorized apps or resources and are safeguarded from malware, phishing, and other cyberattacks.
“With Zscaler, users at our project sites from the capital cities to the remote areas of the outback have direct access to the cloud and SaaS apps, which allows them to work securely and effectively,” said Morrison.
Zscaler processed 402.8 TB of John Holland’s traffic in three months, preventing 98.8 million policy violations and blocking 122,821 security threats. “It’s been eye-opening to see how many threats hide in encrypted traffic, as well as how effectively Zscaler protects us,” he said.
"At John Holland, we’re focused on protecting our data and our customers’ data. Our environment is significantly more secure because of Zscaler. We have a fully matured, best-in-class cyber resiliency program."
  — Morrison, John Holland
"With Zscaler, users at our project sites from the capital cities to the remote areas of the outback have direct access to the cloud and SaaS apps, which allows them to work securely and effectively."
  — Morrison, John Holland
"It’s been eye-opening to see how many threats hide in encrypted traffic, as well as how effectively Zscaler protects us."
  — John Holland

--- Simplifying the network ecosystem and reducing costs ---
“As a result of Zscaler implementation, we’ve seen a 50% reduction in our network costs,” said Morrison.
With Zscaler delivering security protection from the cloud, users’ SaaS and internet traffic no longer has to be backhauled to the data center for threat detection and policy enforcement before proceeding to the SaaS provider⸺and making the same trip in reverse. Cloud native secure access improves application performance and reduces bandwidth costs.
John Holland also simplified its security ecosystem by dramatically reducing its physical firewalls.
“Managing firewalls was a full-time job,” said Morrison. “Moving to Zscaler meant we could eliminate hundreds of firewalls, which has simplified our processes, reduced costs, and made us far more secure.”
With the Zero Trust Exchange, the IT team has a central location for network access policy configuration and settings, updates, and threat intelligence. IT spends less time manually creating and maintaining security policies across firewalls and doesn’t have to worry about policy gaps and configuration drift.
"As a result of Zscaler implementation, we’ve seen a 50% reduction in our network costs."
  — Morrison, John Holland
"Managing firewalls was a full-time job. Moving to Zscaler meant we could eliminate hundreds of firewalls, which has simplified our processes, reduced costs, and made us far more secure."
  — Morrison, John Holland
"As a result of the SD-WAN project in the implementation of Zscaler, we've seen a 50% on average cost reduction in our networking costs."
  — Kier Morrison, General Manager, John Holland

--- Boosting IT productivity with automation and integration ---
The rollout was swift. “Our networking and cloud teams worked hand in hand with Zscaler as we assessed our current security and adapted the policies for a modern cloud approach,” said Morrison. “All of our users were operating on Zscaler in about a week’s time.”
The operational efficiencies have continued beyond Day 1 as the IT team provisions new project sites or decommission locations. As its business needs change, IT can easily route traffic to Zscaler from any new project site, and the policies, inspection, and defense-in-depth capabilities are already in place.
“With Zscaler, we are far more efficient in the way we provide users with secure access to our apps from new project sites,” said Morrison.
To more easily secure and manage corporate devices, Zscaler integrates with Microsoft Entra ID and Microsoft Intune to provide endpoint posture control enforcement. This integration also automates the deployment and provisioning of Zscaler Client Connector agents to endpoints and applies Intune posture policies.
Zscaler integrates with Microsoft Sentinel, which allows billions of threat logs and transactions to be quickly ingested. As a result, Sentinel has more data points, which enables better threat intelligence, visibility, and protection. It also facilitates compliance and event correlation. “The way Zscaler interfaces with Microsoft makes our life exceedingly simple, and we know that any interaction the user has on that device is secure and protected,” said Morrison.
The Zero Trust Exchange platform easily scaled as John Holland’s network traffic grew 46% in one year—and will continue to scale smoothly as the company continues to expand. A predictable cost model allows the company to plan for growth and reinvest funds once spent on its legacy network and security to support its expansion into renewable energy.
"Our networking and cloud teams worked hand in hand with Zscaler as we assessed our current security and adapted the policies for a modern cloud approach. All of our users were operating on Zscaler in about a week’s time."
  — Morrison, John Holland
"With Zscaler, we are far more efficient in the way we provide users with secure access to our apps from new project sites."
  — Morrison, John Holland
"The way Zscaler interfaces with Microsoft makes our life exceedingly simple, and we know that any interaction the user has on that device is secure and protected."
  — Morrison, John Holland

=== SOLUTIONS & PRODUCTS USED ===
- Ransomware

=== VIDEO & TRANSCRIPT ===
Video Title: John Holland Group - Zscaler ZL Sydney video clip _ Full Story
Video Description: a Customer Testimonials video

Transcript Segments:
[Kier Morrison (General Manager, John Holland)] (Encrypted traffic and threats): All of our internet traffic is an issue, Zscaler. We are inspecting about ninety two percent of our encrypted traffic we've seen over the last few months about sixteen thousand threats that have been embedded inside encrypted traffic. So our environment is significantly more secure as a result of that.
[Kier Morrison (General Manager, John Holland)] (Company overview and operations): John Holland is one of Australia's leading infrastructure and construction providers, we operate across both Australia and New Zealand.
[Kier Morrison (General Manager, John Holland)] (User base and locations): Our total user She's around six and a half thousand, and that's a combination of both John Holland employees, our partners, including our JV partners who help us deliver the projects that we're there to deliver. We've got about five headquarter locations around the country, but we equally have about a hundred and twenty plus project locations.
[Kier Morrison (General Manager, John Holland)] (Zscaler model and firewall reduction): Moving with the Zscaler model meant we were able to drop hundreds of firewalls, Zscaler provides the rest of our security. That's simplified our processes and through that simplification made us far more secure. The way that, Zscaler interfaces into the Microsoft network makes our life exceedingly simple. And that means we're efficient in terms of what we're doing, and we can deliver the services we need to our users.
[Kier Morrison (General Manager, John Holland)] (Zscaler deployment and Intune integration): Zscaler is deployed, through Intune and immediately they're secure. One of the first things that happens is that deployment of the Zscaler client, and we know any interaction from that point on that the user is having on that device is secured and protected. We're very, very supportive of that approach and appreciative of what we're getting from that.
[Kier Morrison (General Manager, John Holland)] (Cost reduction and data throughput): A result of the the BSD WAN project in the implementation of Zscaler, we've seen a fifty percent on average cost reduction in our networking costs as a result, we're pushing well over half a petabyte of data every quarter through Zscaler, which is, you know, significant amount of data for our organization, and that just continues to grow.
[Kier Morrison (General Manager, John Holland)] (Digital transformation and security): As we move through our digital transformation, you know, we're doing that in a way that the results see us being more engaged to their end users, yet infinitely more secure than what we could have done in the past. We have proven that our Zscaler implementation works and works very, very well.
